Welcome to JW Broadcasting®!
This month we will discuss
how to meet the challenge
of bearing “thorough witness.”
Is your territory difficult to reach?
Do language and cultural differences
make you apprehensive?
That’s what these publishers faced
when they moved
to where the need is greater.
We’ll learn how they
stepped up to the challenge.
This sister embraced the truth
during a time of violent division
in Northern Ireland.
How did she muster up the courage
to preach to everyone in her community?
We’ll see how Jehovah helped her.
All this and more on JW Broadcasting.
Imagine the astonished look
on the faces of the apostles.
The resurrected Jesus stands before them
on the Mount of Olives.
Just before he disappears into the clouds,
Jesus makes this profound declaration,
as recorded at Acts 1:8:
“You will receive power
when the holy spirit comes upon you,
“and you will be
witnesses of me in Jerusalem,
“in all Judea and Samaria,
and to the most distant part of the earth.”
What an assignment!
They were to preach
the good news of God’s Kingdom
throughout the earth.
Those disciples must have felt overwhelmed
and wondered how
such a small band of preachers
could ever get this work done.
Ten days later, they received
the promised holy spirit,
and they got to work.
True, they faced many challenges.
But that did not stop them.
Three years passed,
and the preaching work
was expanded to include Gentiles.
We can read the moving account
in Acts chapter 10.
First, an angel of God appears
to the God-fearing army officer Cornelius.
Then, Peter responds
to the leadings of God’s spirit
to go to the officer’s home.
There, Peter gives
a thorough witness about Jesus
not only to Cornelius
but also to his family and friends.
As he concludes his discourse,
Peter explains the commission
he received to be an evangelizer.
Let’s open to Acts 10:42,
and note the two main aspects
of the preaching work started by Jesus:
“Also, he ordered us to preach to the people
“and to give a thorough witness
“that this is the one decreed by God
to be judge of the living and the dead.”
First, Jesus commanded his disciples
“to preach to the people.”
In addition, they were
“to give a thorough witness.”
The disciples were to search out
honesthearted, deserving ones.
That would require a thorough coverage
of their territory.
In spite of vicious persecution,
Christians in the first century
obeyed Jesus’ command
to preach and to bear thorough witness.
And by about 60 of our Common Era,
less than 30 years after the Christians
had received their commission,
Paul could write
to the congregation in Colossae
that the good news had been
“preached in all creation under heaven.”
What a testimony to the power
of God’s holy spirit
and the faith, zeal,
and determination of those early disciples!
In the late 1800’s,
a small group of Bible students
rose to the challenge
of bearing thorough witness.
An article in the April 1881 issue
of Zion’s Watch Tower
had the thrilling title
“Wanted 1,000 Preachers.”
Today, Jehovah’s Witnesses
are bearing witness
in 240 lands.
But doing so has its challenges.
What are some of those challenges,
and what can we do to meet them?
Many of our brothers face
the challenge of long distances,
climate extremes, rough terrain,
and poor travel conditions.
In some areas, just getting
to meet people
is a challenge.
To add to the challenge,
Revelation 14:6 reminds us
that the good news would be declared
“to every nation and tribe
and tongue and people.”
This can require learning a new language
and understanding
different religious, ethnic,
and cultural backgrounds.
It can mean coping
with unresponsive territories,
apathy, and poor living conditions.
Jesus warned that opposers would try
to hinder or stop the preaching work.
No doubt you are facing
some form of challenge
in your local territory.
We cannot begin to give possible solutions
to all the obstacles we face today.
But it is helpful to learn how others
are coping with their challenges,
and this can stimulate our thinking
to identify ways to meet our challenges.
Let’s focus on three Bible principles
that will help us
to carry out our ministry successfully:
(1) Trust in Jehovah,
(2) be flexible,
and (3) stay focused.
How can trusting in Jehovah help us?
Consider an example.
During the 1990’s,
Jehovah’s Witnesses in France
endured an avalanche
of negative media reports.
As a result of these vicious attacks,
some brothers lost their jobs,
Witness children were taunted at school,
preaching became extremely difficult
in some areas.
How did they cope?
The turning point came in January 1999.
The Governing Body approved
a special campaign
to distribute a magazine-size tract
that exposed all of the accusations as false.
Beginning early one Friday morning,
Witnesses throughout France
distributed 12 million copies of the tract
in just three days.
This campaign gave them renewed strength
and boldness to preach.
In the 19 years that followed,
there was a continuous increase
in the number of publishers
and the ranks of regular pioneers
swelled to over 15,000.
If you constantly face a barrage
of negative media reports,
does this mean that you need
a special campaign to meet the challenge?
Not necessarily.
Although the campaign was a stimulus,
brothers and sisters in France said
that what really gave them
strength and boldness
were the words of 2 Chronicles 32:8.
Let’s read it.
The setting is in the time
of King Hezekiah of Judah.
The people were beaten down
by the repeated threats
and taunts of the Assyrians.
What strengthened them?
Speaking about the king of Assyria,
King Hezekiah declared:
“With him is an arm of flesh,
“but with us is Jehovah our God to help us
and to fight our battles.”
What was the result?
“The people were strengthened
by the words of King Hezekiah of Judah.”
Just hearing this reminder
that Jehovah would help them
was enough to strengthen the Jews.
Jehovah took action and sent an angel
to destroy the enemy army.
Does Jehovah use his angels to help us today?
Note what we read at Revelation 14:6:
“I saw another angel flying in midheaven,
“and he had everlasting good news to declare
“to those who dwell on the earth,
“to every nation and tribe
and tongue and people.”
Be sensitive to angelic direction
and the leadings of God’s holy spirit.
If you feel moved to make that one last call
or to speak to the person
next to you on the bus, do it!
Speak up.
It may well be
that an angel is directing you
to one who is “rightly disposed
for everlasting life.”
Now let’s consider the second Bible principle
that will help us to bear thorough witness:
Be flexible.
Sometimes just getting to talk to people
can be a challenge.
To overcome this obstacle,
we need to be flexible.
Takanori and Yumi Takahashi
have served in territories
that are as different as night and day.
Recently, they visited our studio.
Listen as they tell us how they have learned
to meet the challenges
of bearing thorough witness.
Takanori and Yumi,
welcome to our studio!
Thank you for inviting us.
And we’re very happy to have you here.
Takanori, you and I go back a long way.
I still remember when you came
into Japan Bethel back in 1977,
and we served in the same congregation
for a number of years.
But then in 1990, you had
a big change in your life.
Would you like to tell us what happened?
Yes, my twin brother,
Nobuaki, was also serving at Bethel.
To our surprise, we were assigned
to Papua New Guinea as missionaries.
That was a big change!
And here you are working
in the rural territory of Papua New Guinea.
During your 25 years in Papua New Guinea,
I understand that you served
in the missionary field,
in the circuit work, and also at Bethel.
So, Yumi, when did you come into the picture?
Takanori and I were married
in September 1993,
and I joined him in the missionary work.
Adapting to remote territories such as this
was a challenge.
So in order to bear thorough witness,
what kind of challenges
did you have to overcome?
The people of Papua New Guinea
are very friendly.
They have a deep respect for the Bible.
It was easy to relax,
speak to them face-to-face,
to read the Scriptures together,
and reason with them.
Those don’t sound like challenges.
Did you face any obstacles?
When we preached in the villages,
the response of the local people
often depended on the response
of the village chief.
If he listened,
almost the whole village listened.
But if his response was negative,
the people would walk away
and hide in the bush.
So we would always show respect
and approach the village chief first.
This often moved him
to view our visit with favor.
The challenge in the cities
was mainly security.
It wasn’t safe for us to go
into some areas alone
or to visit homes regularly.
So we would ask our Bible students
to come to the Kingdom Hall
for their study before the meeting.
That was a good way to encourage them
to attend meetings.
Well, it’s obvious that you enjoyed
your service in Papua New Guinea.
But now you’re serving as special pioneers
in the Maihama Congregation
just 20 minutes from downtown Tokyo.
So you went from a territory
where people have deep respect for the Bible
to a land where less than 1 percent
of the people claim to be Christian.
So, what other kind of differences
did you find
between your territory in Japan now
and your missionary territory?
Oh, it’s very different.
Tokyo Disneyland is in our territory,
and 70 percent of the homes
are in high-security apartment buildings.
We have to stand in the lobby
in front of the doorman,
push a button, and speak to a camera.
Coming from Papua New Guinea,
we found it challenging
to work this territory.
We were used to friendly discussions
face-to-face.
Now we see only the lens of a camera.
But we have learned
to view the camera as our friend.
As your friend?
I think most of us find it challenging
to speak to a camera.
So how do you overcome this challenge?
We know that as soon as we push the button,
our face shows up on a screen
inside of the apartment.
We stand an arm’s length from the camera
so that our face is framed nicely.
And we adjust our volume accordingly,
taking into consideration the doorman
and others who may be listening.
We say our greeting
about two seconds after we push the button,
just when we know
that they are looking at the monitor.
Our friendly greeting and warm smile
makes them feel like we
can actually see their face.
We prepare a specific appealing introduction
and show them respect and consideration.
The people in our territory
like to be viewed as successful,
not as people who have problems.
So we try to focus on positive subjects.
We prepare a variety of subjects
so that they don’t hear
the same message over and over.
Like many people, Japanese do not like
to be put on the spot.
So instead of asking a question
and waiting for them to answer,
we use the teaching method of our tracts
and give three possible answers
for them to choose from.
Well, have you had positive results
from this intercom preaching?
Since we started to use this method,
the number of not-at-homes has decreased.
And also, when we meet people on the street,
sometimes they say they know us
because they saw us on their intercom.
That was excellent!
And thank you, Takanori and Yumi,
for sharing with us
how you have met the challenge
of bearing thorough witness
in a variety of territories.
First Corinthians 9:22, 23
—let’s read it.
“I have become all things
“to people of all sorts,
“so that I might by all possible means save some.
“But I do all things
“for the sake of the good news,
in order to share it with others.”
“Become all things.”
“Do all things.”
In other words, be flexible.
Apply the suggestions
in the meeting workbook.
Get well-acquainted with each tool
in the Teaching Toolbox.
Observe how experienced publishers
and pioneers use those tools.
Understand the feelings and circumstances
of people in the territory.
Even in the same territory,
we may need to use a variety of approaches.
For example, about 40 percent
of the apartment buildings
in the Takahashi’s territory
do not allow the Witnesses
to enter the lobby,
so they do public and informal witnessing
to reach those people.
Now let’s consider the third Bible principle:
Stay focused.
At Matthew 6:22, Jesus said:
“The lamp of the body is the eye.
“If, then, your eye is focused,
your whole body will be bright.”
Keeping our eye focused means
keeping our life simple
in order to concentrate on spiritual matters.
Distractions take our attention
and energy away
from our responsibility
to bear thorough witness.
Before we can teach those who are
“rightly disposed for everlasting life,”
we have to find them.
We leave no stone unturned
as we search for them at their homes,
on the streets, in parks,
in stores, and at the workplace.
There’s no on/off switch
for our preaching work.
Our “preaching switch” must be on
at all times.
Not only do we look
for opportunities to preach
but we also make opportunities.
What if our efforts to find interested ones
are not fruitful?
Jesus did not say that every human
must become a disciple before the end comes.
Rather, he said that the end will come
after the good news has been preached
in all the inhabited earth
and a witness has been given
to all the nations.
The apostle Paul stayed
focused on his ministry.
May we imitate his positive attitude
expressed at Acts 20:24:
“Nevertheless, I do not consider my own life
“of any importance to me,
“if only I may finish my course
“and the ministry that I received
from the Lord Jesus,
“to bear thorough witness to the good news
of the undeserved kindness of God.”
The opportunity to bear thorough witness
will soon be over.
May we use the remaining time effectively
to search for deserving ones
and to teach them the truth.
Imitate the faith of Hezekiah,
and trust in Jehovah;
learn from the apostle Paul,
and be flexible;
obey Jesus’ direction,
and stay focused.
Then you too can meet the challenge
of bearing “thorough witness.”
Another challenge of bearing thorough witness
is preaching in the midst of civil unrest.
Starting in the 1960’s,
our brothers in Northern Ireland
endured 30 violent years
known as the “Troubles.”
Kay Harrigan learned the truth
during those difficult times.
Listen as Kay describes
how she was drawn to the truth
and how it changed her life.
Trusting in Jehovah
helped Kay overcome her fears.
What blessings did she receive?
Kay said that she has the happiness
of bringing good news to everyone.
Since 2013,
the School for Kingdom Evangelizers
has prepared brothers and sisters
to serve where there is a greater need.
Even with this training, however,
graduates sometimes find
their assignments challenging.
We’ll see that
in our next segment from Tanzania.
I wanted to help the deaf
so that they too can know Jehovah.
So I decided to move
to a sign-language territory:
the sign-language group in Dar es Salaam.
We had to travel by bus,
and sometimes we traveled far
(stuck in a traffic jam
for two to three hours),
and it was expensive.
I still remember my early days in service
with the sign-language group.
I was very inexperienced with the language,
and one day, my service partner
asked me to conduct her Bible study.
Every time I tried to talk
to the student, argh, she didn’t understand.
As I kept trying, she became
more and more frustrated with me,
and I started to feel discouraged.
I wanted to help, but I was powerless.
I felt bad.
I told myself: ‘I still don’t know the deaf.
‘I still don’t know sign language.
‘Why has Jehovah brought me into this field
in which I am not able to help the deaf?’
I was invited
to the School for Kingdom Evangelizers
in 2014, from September to November.
After graduating, I received
an assignment in sign language again.
Jehovah truly helped me so much.
That was exactly
the encouragement I needed to persevere
in learning the language
and becoming more effective in my assignment.
I was able to conduct my own Bible studies,
and they could really understand me now.
When we started,
there were two baptized deaf publishers,
but now there are over ten.
I’ve had the opportunity to help
three deaf people to make progress,
to dedicate themselves to Jehovah,
and to get baptized.
The training I received at the school
is still helping me now
in my new assignment
at the translation office,
where I serve together with my husband.
We are joyful because we know
that through this work,
many deaf people
will receive publications in their language
and this will bring about
an increase in this territory.
I graduated from the School
for Kingdom Evangelizers in 2015.
And it was a privilege
to receive the assignment
to go help the Maasai
to know Jehovah in their mother tongue.
Traveling is difficult.
Sometimes I travel by vehicle,
but sometimes there are areas
in which there are no vehicles,
so I’m forced to walk.
Sometimes I can travel by motorcycle
to reach many more people.
But still, transportation
is a difficult part of it:
there are valleys, there are mountains,
there are uphills, there are downhills.
So transportation is difficult.
When I finally reached the territory,
I was able to find the Maasai.
I was apprehensive about their reaction
because I know their culture;
they don’t know Jehovah.
So I wondered what would happen
when I reached their territory.
During that stressful time,
I prayed to Jehovah;
I read his Word, the Bible;
I meditated on accounts of our brothers
and sisters mentioned in the Bible;
and after prayer, Jehovah gave me strength.
I was able to return to them,
make return visits, and start Bible studies.
So the results have been good.
I am happy
that after starting studies,
some started taking steps
and attending meetings.
They later made good progress,
and now some of them
are our brothers and sisters.
They dedicated themselves and were baptized.
I feel so much joy.
Jehovah has given me
the strength and the ability
to be used to further the preaching
of the good news
and to help the Maasai spiritually.
Sabina said that she was discouraged.
Saitoti was stressed.
Have you ever felt that way
about your ministry?
What helped them?
Sabina persevered.
She became proficient in sign language
and had the joy of helping
several deaf ones learn the truth.
Saitoti relied on prayer and meditation.
Jehovah gave him the strength
to bear witness to the Maasai.
And we saw the encouraging results.
Showing love and concern for people
is a vital element
in bearing thorough witness.
This was the subject
of a recent Morning Worship program
conducted by Brother William Turner,
and we’re happy to share it with you.
His theme is “Make Known ‘the Good News.’”
“How does it make you feel,
“knowing God’s support is real,
“and that he’s entrusted [us]
to do the work we do?”
We know that song.
We love that song.
But have you ever stopped
to meditate on the lyrics?
How do we feel?
Because, really,
it’s a tremendous, amazing privilege
that Jehovah has entrusted to his people
—the work of Kingdom preaching
and disciple-making.
Now, while the work at Bethel
contributes to the preaching work
in a very precious and unique way,
we still recognize it’s quite special
to be able to assist someone in the ministry
and watch them progress
to the point of making a dedication
and symbolizing that by water baptism.
Our text comments mention the qualities
of gratitude and undeserved kindness.
And these are good qualities
because they’re qualities that motivate us,
that move us to action,
that touch our emotions.
Why is this emotional investment
so important when it comes to our ministry?
Well, think, for example,
of our greatest Teacher and Preacher
who ever walked the earth,
and that is Jesus Christ.
Turn with me in your Bibles, please,
to Luke chapter 19,
and we’ll just take a look at one instance
of how Jesus demonstrated
this love and concern.
Luke 19:41
says: “And when he
[that is, Jesus] got nearby,
“he viewed the city [Jerusalem]
and wept over it.”
How interesting!
Jesus’ heart was filled with so much emotion
that his eyes brimmed over with tears
when he contemplated the people,
their rejection of the message,
the siege that was to follow.
Doesn’t that show his love for people?
And obviously,
that love was made evident
the entire time
that he was here on the earth.
Now, we may not give way to tears
every time we go into our territory
and engage in the ministry,
but certainly we want
to imitate Jesus’ example,
because it’s so vital that we have
and demonstrate love for people.
It reminds me of a conversation I had
with a missionary sister some time ago,
and at the time,
she was revealing her personal circumstances.
And she felt that at that time
she could comfortably handle
ten Bible studies.
So I asked her how things were going.
She said, “Well, actually I have 20.”
She said, “I was able to get rid of six.”
She said,
“But I just can’t turn over these last four.”
She said, “They’re such a part of my life;
I just can’t let them go.”
Well, it sounds like a good problem to have.
But doesn’t it highlight her love for people?
She was emotionally invested.
Now, we also have to admit
that while preaching is a wonderful work,
actually carrying it out
is not always easy to do.
Perhaps at times we may feel
like the prophet Jeremiah.
You recall when he
was commissioned as a prophet,
he gave Jehovah a number of reasons
why he shouldn’t be selected.
He was too shy, too young,
wasn’t able to speak well.
And then once he got into his assignment
and the opposition and the ridicule started
—well, let’s take note of his feelings.
Turn with me, please,
to Jeremiah chapter 20,
Jeremiah chapter 20.
We’ll begin with the B  part of verse 8:
“For me the word of Jehovah
“has been the cause of insults
and jeering all day long.
“So I said:
‘I am not going to make mention of him,
and I will speak no more in his name.’”
Have you ever had times
when you felt like Jeremiah,
when you just didn’t have the desire
or feel like speaking
to others about Jehovah?
And maybe it was for similar reasons:
We’re shy; we feel nervous;
people in the territory are indifferent.
Or could it just be that we’re just tired?
The energy that we feel we need,
we just don’t have it.
Is it normal to feel this way at times?
Absolutely.
But let’s take note
of what Jeremiah says next.
Let’s finish verse 9.
He says:
“But in my heart
“it became like a burning fire
shut up in my bones,
“and I was tired of holding it in;
I could no longer endure it.”
You notice,
it was Jeremiah’s love for Jehovah,
his zeal for the truth,
his strong spirituality
—all of these were things
that were able to help him remain invested
and be able to overcome
any temporary discouragement
that he might have been feeling at that time.
So, what can help us to stay invested
and to maintain our love for people?
Well, there are many ways,
but we’ll discuss two.
First, Jeremiah’s example shows us
that there is never a substitute
for the study of God’s Word.
Did you notice,
What was that ‘burning fire
shut up in his bones’?
Verse 8 tells us
it was “the word of Jehovah.”
So it was Jeremiah’s appreciation
for the importance of his message
that made him responsive
to the encouragement
he received when he read God’s Word.
And it works the same for us as well.
Study of God’s Word
helps to reinforce our love for Jehovah.
It’s a constant reminder
that we’re living in the last days,
that we’re deep in the time of the end,
and that we need to do
all that we can to find
those who are
“rightly disposed for everlasting life.”
Yes, it is natural
that we are going to experience
discouragement from time to time,
but when we pray to Jehovah for help,
you see, if his Word is in our hearts,
then Jehovah can freely impart
his holy spirit to us.
He can give us what we need
to be bold preachers of the good news
and be productive in our ministry.
Now, the second thing that can help us
is applying the suggestions
that are given to us
by the slave to help us improve our ministry.
Now, perhaps in the past,
preaching may have been difficult,
maybe just because of pressure
we put upon ourselves.
Perhaps we may have felt that we
had to have the perfect presentation
or we had to place
a certain amount of literature.
But how loving it is that we see
that with the various adjustments
that have been made in our ministry,
well, hopefully some
of that anxiety has been lifted
because now we know
our focus is on starting conversations!
And with the help of prayer and God’s spirit,
we can see how that
just naturally progresses into a witness.
If we just think back for a moment
to the example of Jesus,
we can only imagine
how many preaching opportunities
Jesus must have had
just from starting conversations.
Of course, the one
we’re most familiar with is in John chapter 4
—the Samaritan woman at the well.
Not only was that a great witness
but just think about all of those
who became believers afterward.
And all of that started simply
from Jesus starting a conversation
—asking for water.
We may not always have
as many opportunities at Bethel
to engage in the house-to-house work
as we would like,
but certainly as we travel,
as we move about,
this can present greater opportunities
to start conversations.
In last month’s meeting workbook,
there was an article
“Starting Conversations
That Can Lead to a Witness,”
and that article just provided
many excellent, practical suggestions
that we can implement.
So if we follow these suggestions,
well, this is a nice way that we can show
and demonstrate our gratitude.
We’re making the best use
of our time to start a witness.
So, as we mentioned,
there are many ways
that we can show our gratitude.
But certainly these two:
Our study of God’s Word and applying
the suggestions to improve our ministry
are two ways that we can certainly implement.
So in imitation of Jesus, Jeremiah,
many other faithful Witnesses of Jehovah,
may we do what we can
to show that we are invested,
that we show our love for God
and our love for people
as we appreciatively carry out our commission
to preach the good news.
“Love Never Fails”!
was the theme of last year’s conventions.
Twenty-four international conventions
were held in different parts of the earth.
As we’ll see in the following report,
our international conventions
showcased the love and unity
of Jehovah’s people,
and they provided a tremendous witness.
Jesus said that the identifying mark
of true Christians would be
their love for one another.
This was especially evident
at our 2019 “Love Never Fails”!
International Conventions.
I never expected
the welcome that we received.
There were over 200 brothers in the airport.
For me, it’s like I’m in Paradise already
because of the love I feel here.
Wherever I turn, there’s love.
As I walked around the corner,
the reception of the friends,
the way they embraced me,
was something
that I could not have expected.
No one could’ve even described it to me.
Mexico has a lot of different cultures.
But here in this stadium,
we are one people united by love,
serving Jehovah.
That’s unique, it’s wonderful,
and it’s all thanks to love.
It doesn’t matter where we come from
or what language we speak.
The language here is love.
Our love of neighbor motivated us
to share in a global preaching campaign.
Foreign delegates
worked shoulder to shoulder
with hosts from the local city
to invite millions of people
from around the world
to one of the 24 international conventions.
This gave our brothers and sisters
from different parts of the globe
an opportunity to get to know each other,
united by the common goal of spreading
the good news to everyone they met.
I worked in field service with a sister
who used to study the Bible
with a Brazilian woman.
The sister had prayed to send
a Brazilian sister to accompany her.
When we visited the woman together,
she could see the love we have between us
and the efforts we made to come so far
to attend the convention here in Denmark.
Over a million people attended
the international conventions
in many different languages.
Both foreign and local delegates
as well as newly interested ones
were able to learn firsthand
how love never fails.
“Clothe yourselves with love,
for it is a perfect bond of union.”
First, love identifies us.
Humility
—that’s love in action.
Loyal love is a beautiful aspect
of Jehovah’s personality.
Well, Jesus made it simple, didn’t he?
He said: ‘Look for the love.
Look for the love,
and you’ll find the right religion.’
Christian love has power.
It can reach hearts in ways
that the spoken word cannot.
But, really,
what other group of persons on earth
are interested in discussing
love that doesn’t fail?
When someone sees us,
they should see a loving individual.
When they see any one of us
who are servants of Jehovah,
then they should see love.
In addition to spending time in the ministry,
activities were planned
so that delegates could get to know
their brothers better.
This gave delegates the opportunity
to learn about the culture
and our spiritual heritage
in the host country.
In some cities,
they visited exhibits and locations
where previously our faith
and love had been tested.
For example, delegates in Berlin
had the opportunity to visit
Sachsenhausen concentration camp
where many of our brothers were imprisoned
during World War II.
I thought it was especially amazing,
despite the circumstances
those brothers and sisters faced,
that even their persecutors
had to recognize
the true identifying mark of Christianity
—of love.
This visit showed the faithful endurance
our brothers and sisters
demonstrated under vicious persecution
and the love they had for Jehovah
–a fitting example of love that never fails.
Adolf Hitler wanted to exterminate
Jehovah’s Witnesses;
he called them a brood.
But instead,
Jehovah’s Witnesses are still here,
proving that Christian love never fails.
Another example of faith and endurance
was seen in Seoul, Korea.
Since 1953,
young Korean brothers had been imprisoned
for refusing military service.
Altogether,
over 19,000 brothers
who refused to compromise their faith
spent nearly 37,000 years in prison.
Delegates were able to visit
a neutrality exhibition to learn more
about the strong faith and unwavering courage
these young brothers displayed.
On February 28, 2019,
the last of our imprisoned brothers
was released.
Because I received
a not-guilty verdict just two weeks ago,
I was able to attend
this international convention.
I am so grateful to Jehovah.
My son receiving this acquittal
enabled him to attend this convention.
We never imagined this would be possible.
What a joy it was
for these brothers to attend
this historic international convention
alongside their families
and thousands of foreign delegates!
Just being able to sit
next to my son for the convention
completely fills my heart.
Despite an ongoing economic crisis,
many delegates from Venezuela
were able to attend
the international convention
in Sao Paulo, Brazil.
Coming from Venezuela,
it’s difficult to earn
a living or save money.
We had to sell our electronic devices
and work long hours to be here.
But these sacrifices
will always be worth it.
The love we show to our brothers is possible
because of the love Jehovah shows us.
An expression of his love to us
comes in the form of his Word, the Bible.
In Copenhagen, Denmark,
delegates from Iceland
were delighted to receive a special gift.
We are happy to announce the release
of the Icelandic New World Translation
of the Christian Greek Scriptures.
Additionally,
at several 2019 international conventions,
our brothers received
the revised New World Translation
in the language of their heart.
I can really feel the love from Jehovah.
He’s given us this wonderful gift
because he wants us to know
that the words in this book
are from him.
The conventions also gave
thousands the opportunity
to express their love for Jehovah
by symbolizing their dedication to him
through baptism.
The love among our brothers
was evident to onlookers as well.
The police directing traffic
had less work than they normally do.
The atmosphere was so contagious
that they started greeting
foreign and local delegates.
They were so happy.
They said:
“This country does not need more police.
What it needs is more Jehovah’s Witnesses!”
Our 2019 international conventions
have given us
an opportunity to demonstrate
how Jehovah’s love
motivates us to love.
Well, as we approach
the end of this system of things,
we’re going to need love
more than ever before.
Of course,
we need loyalty;
of course,
we need endurance;
and, of course,
we’re going to sing that song of courage.
But remember what else we want
—Jehovah’s loyal love!
May we be determined
to imitate Him in letting
our love never ever fail,
all to Jehovah’s glory.
Our program has focused
on meeting the challenge
of bearing thorough witness.
Before we close,
here’s the video postcard
of our Aymara-speaking brothers
and sisters in Bolivia.
This South American country
is home to about 28,500 publishers
and nearly 7,000 pioneers.
Bolivia officially recognizes Spanish
and 36 indigenous languages,
including Aymara.
Of the country’s 11 million people,
about 1.6 million speak Aymara.
This is the remote translation office
in the city of El Alto.
Twenty translators are helping
to provide Bible-based literature
in the Aymara language.
In 2017,
the New World Translation
of the Christian Greek Scriptures
was released in Aymara.
Most of the Aymara-speaking territory
surrounds beautiful Lake Titicaca
and includes parts of Bolivia and Peru.
Reaching those in isolated villages involves
hours of traveling and walking.
The response is encouraging.
The Aymara people respect God’s Word
and highly appreciate spiritual discussions.
Today, there are 31 Aymara congregations
and 14 Aymara-language groups in Bolivia.
The Copacabana Aymara Congregation is located
at an altitude of 3,800 meters,
or nearly 12,500 feet.
The congregation includes this isolated group
located about an hour and a half
from Copacabana.
Copacabana is a very popular tourist spot.
People come from around the world
to see Andean culture
and beautiful Lake Titicaca.
The congregation engages
in many forms of public witnessing.
Their territory even includes
an island in the middle of the lake.
Our brothers and sisters
of the Copacabana Aymara Congregation
send you
their warm Christian love and greetings.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.